there once was this episode of the
simpsons
that presented the audience with a chart
of
the food chain i mean this is the best
kind of joke you get out of the simpsons
because there's really no
punch line it's just asserting to you
a deadpan serious manner this is the
absurdity
of how people think about the food chain
the food chain just becomes an excuse
for whatever people want to believe like
that people should be able to eat
ostriches and crocodiles whatever
the misinformation that's circulating
all around the mainstream media now
about china's policy in xinjiang
there's one man standing at the center
of it all
very much like this joke from the
simpsons and yes
i realize it's a really bad idea to open
my video with
a cultural reference that's older than
of my audience um i'd probably be way
better off opening this video with a
joke about
um bonnie rebecca chunky flaky chunky
[Music]
flaky
so the internment campaign of detaining
large numbers of weaker senate turkic
minorities into camps
is really what distinguishes what's
going on in xinjiang
from what china has done in other
minority regions including tibet
and other tibetan regions it also
distinguishes it from
the cultural revolution because it's the
probably largest targeted internment
often
ethno-religious minority since the
holocaust basically
this guy is a german he's called adrian
sense he's
not an expert at all neither of china or
islam of
or human rights and he's an evangelist
and it's now commonplace for uh western
politicians
and major media outlets to like in china
to nazi germany
and suggest that kindness china is
conducting a holocaust against uighur
muslims
these are incredibly damning accusations
and we at the gray zone
feel that it's important to examine the
basis of these claims before running
with them
the article claims to be based on
government statistics and documents and
interviews
with 30 witnesses yet it soon becomes
clear that the article is mostly based
on a report
authored by adrian zens a german
researcher
who popularized the idea that one
million people were locked up in
xinjiang
based on accounts of only eight people
his latest report on birth rate in
xinjiang was
funded by the jamestown foundation a
conservative think tank based
in washington dc
and so the internment campaign has
established
an estimated 1000 to 1200
internment camps all over the area
they are of different types and we have
witness accounts
um so the network of chinese human
rights defenders is a washington
dc-based uh ngo
with a strong pro-united states and uh
strong anti-china
bias they also have liken china to nazi
germany in the past
it was a report by the network of
chinese human rights defenders that
first popularized
the millions detained figure
with respect to uyghur muslims in
xinjiang in a 2018 report to the un
committee on the elimination of racial
discrimination
uh this has often been misrepresented in
the west as a un authored report
because it was cited by a u.s member of
that panel
it was not authored by the un or a
unbody uh
in this report uh the uh the network of
chinese human rights defenders
estimates that one to three million
uyghur muslims are
in uh re-education detention camps or
re-education
day programs and according to the chrd
uh this is based on interviews and
limited data when one looks at
the actual study behind their claims
that they published
it's in fact based on interviews with
eight anonymous
uighur uh individuals living in villages
in
xinjiang well only needs to take a quick
read of his
20 odd page report in order to find
well more questions than answers for
instance he claims
that most recently hueger regions appear
to conceal
birth rate data indicating its
increasing sensitivity
now for the first time in about two
decades
kashgar prefectures 2019 annie report
does not
divulge birth death or natural
population growth rates
the reason for this is according to
zen's apparent
kashgar's population declined between
2018 and 2019
this could be due to out-migration it
might
also be caused by extremely low birth
rates
can you believe your ears this is
apparent
such sentences should never have been
the language of a researcher
simply because such details are missing
in one annual report could any serious
scholar reach the conclusion
that this must have been the result of a
forced birth control campaign
zen was right about the population of
kashgar prefecture declining
from 2018 to 2019 from 4.63 million
to 4.62 million
the difference was around 10 000 people
less than 0.2 percent
and according to my sources the number
of harm people in kashgar actually
dropped more than weaker people so on
what basis could he extrapolate that
there was
extremely low birth rates among vega
women only
zens himself couldn't exclude
out-migration as a factor either
so the reason is apparent except that he
is
only speculating i would classify
them as either psychological torture or
physical torture the
former the first are camps
where people describe of being interned
and being forced to undergo re-education
sessions which is
hour-long sessions of memorizing
reciting and learning about
communist propaganda which oftentimes
they they don't
intellectually grasp at all but they're
having to repeat it
of chinese language and what they also
very much get told is that
the law is above religion in the sense
of
they are forced to give up their
religion they're forced to renounce
religious belief
he's a member of an american
organization
which is which is called victims of
communism memorial
foundation which is far right
organization in the u.s with people
coming from the cia
this is a joke i mean this is really a
joke
because this guy you just have to look
behind yeah so i think this is very
important
because the whole business the whole
thing today is coming from
one guy which is supported who's
supported
by organization in the united states and
far-right organization
he writes by 2019 xinjiang planned
for over 80 percent of women of child
bearing age in the rural southern four
minority prefectures to be subjected to
birth control measures with long-term
effectiveness
he provided a source link which is the
xinjiang health commission's budget
report issued
on january 29 2019 but this sentence or
such information is
nowhere to be found in this budget
report
so while we had a lot of people in camps
and camps being built and camps growing
that's an easy thing to be outraged
about
that's an easy thing to actually bring
to united nations and other places in
people locked up in the tournament camps
china now we are late in the game and
china is moving away from that
china is now releasing people by
determination
many people are being released and the
karakos list leaked document
also proves a large share of release
of people into what into the unfreedom
of a sophisticated police state if you
want to know
what kind of guy adrian sense is
i'd encourage you just this once
to try judging a book by its cover
you know what just try judging this
particular book
and its author by its title yeah go
ahead take a moment read the title in
full
that tells you a lot about what kind of
a crackpot
adrian sense is i am not suggesting to
you
that he works for or with the cia
because i'd like to imagine that the cia
works with a higher caliber of
individual oh and if you object
that you would never never judge a book
by its cover well you can
find the whole book online you could
read it yourself
but tell me something do you actually
take a copy of maxim magazine
off the shelf and read page after page
with a completely open mind as if
there's just
no way you can prejudge what the
contents of this magazine are going to
be
by its cover by its title by the summary
of information that's provided to you
there
yeah you know what spare yourself in
this case
judge a book by its cover and judge the
author
by the book the jamestown foundation
the foundation that published his work
yeah the jamestown foundation is a joke
that doesn't even endure the scrutiny of
a quick
google search a google search i would
encourage you all to do
i'd just like to close this video with a
lament for the good old days
of really highly professional cia
black ops and disinformation campaigns
there really were disinformation
campaigns
involving vietnam cambodia
sudan and haiti that i have researched
and i can say honestly still to this day
people find them convincing still to
this day like i talk to other
specialists in the field and it's like
bro
you don't know that cia disinformation
like
it still hasn't been debunked in the
eyes of people with phds
who consider themselves specialists in
cambodia or whatever but what a lot of
people with phds are chumps
adrian sense himself is an example of
that and yeah you know what that brings
me back to like the other funny
recurring light motif
i mean what is it that makes avery
incense supposedly respectable
it's that he has a phd from cambridge
university england
in social anthropology yeah you know
what i used to be married
to a woman with a phd specifically
from cambridge university england
specifically in social anthropology i
spent a whole lot of time
hanging out with hobnobbing with meeting
face-to-face
the professors and students in social
anthropology at cambridge england i am
unusually well qualified to tell you
just how little it means
that this particular crackpot got a phd
from cambridge and you know
i do notice that a great many of these
people
who are put on stage and presented as
experts
don't actually speak read or write
chinese i mean look i never thought it'd
be wistful for the
bad old days you know normally when the
disinformation
is of a low enough quality what it
really indicates
is not that the intelligence
professionals lack professionalism
but that they're dragging their feet
like they don't really
want the lie to be convincing or
believable
if you look at the cover-up of the
assassination of rfk
not jfk rfk two different guys there are
so many
obvious holes in the story that you
really have to wonder
is it that the people participating in
this assassination
you know were inept or is it that they
really
wanted it to be discovered for people
who really are
career intelligence professionals that's
the main way they can express their
dissatisfaction
with the leadership of someone like
george w bush
or the leadership of someone like donald
trump they can't really object they
can't really protest but yeah they can
drag their heels and do a really
transparently shitty job